### Repository for the CRC book chapter.

# Deadline is July 30, 2016.

With the advent of exascale computing architectures expected within the
timespan of about eight years, many scientific application development teams
will need to start the work of preparing their software for these unprecedented
new resources. As part of efforts to prepare applications for the next
generation architectures, a significant number of teams have already started to
adapt their codes for the pre-exascale and eventually exascale computers that
will be sited at these facilities. The experience of preparing for massively
multi-threaded exascale systems will be a valuable resource to other
development teams that will face similar challenges for their applications. It
appears timely, therefore, to document and disseminate the strategies being
developed and used, experiences, and best practices obtained in these early
scientific application porting efforts—especially those with the goal of
achieving high scalability with minimal loss in performance portability. With
this goal in mind, we are preparing a publication in the form of an edited
book, with working title “Exascale Scientific Applications: Programming
Approaches for Scalability, Performance, and Portability” with contributed
chapters from the developers to outline these programming approaches for a
series of specific scientific applications and application readiness programs.
This book will be published by CRC Press Taylor & Francis Group  in the Chapman
& Hall / CRC Computational Science book series. Katie Antypas, Timothy Williams
, and I, will serve as co-editors for this book. 

As PI of the SPECFEM CAAR project, and lead of the development team for the
SPECFEM applications, we would like to invite you to contribute a chapter for
this book that focuses on the SPECFEM application development efforts to
prepare for the effective use of pre-exascale and eventually exascale computing
resources. 

Obviously you may include other co-authors on the book chapter. The attached
document gives more detailed information about the structure and topics we
envision for the chapters in the book. We hope that you will be excited to
participate and are looking forward to working with you. If you accept our
invitation, you will receive additional relevant information from the publisher
of the book series.

With best regards,

Tjerk Straatsma, Group Leader for Scientific Computing at the Oak Ridge
Leadership Computing Facility (OLCF)and lead for the Center for Accelerated
Application Readiness (CAAR)
Katie Antypas, Scientific Computing and Data Services Department Head at the
National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) and involved in
the NERSC Exascale Scientific Applications Program (NESAP)
Tim Williams, Computational Scientist at the Argonne Leadership Computing
Facility (ALCF) and lead of the Early Science Program (ESP)

